Are we really as democratic as claimed? A few financial families control the maj§ority of the stock market, and therefore control companies as they have the most votes during their annual meetings. When you cannot vote or decide what happens at your workplace where you spend a large part of your time and energy, but instead have to choose which politicians will represent the financial families every four years, what kind of democracy do you live in then? They vote against labor rights and politicians focus on unimportant things because more radical changes would reduce profits for entrepreneurs.

What would the solution be? Nationalization in the current circumstances where politicians are given power would give a too small increase in democracy in the workplace. If the financial families still have great influence over politics, they will de facto control the nationalized industries. More radical solutions are therefore needed. We begin by analyzing Chile between 1970-1973 under Salvador Allende, and project Cybersyn.

Project Cybersyn was an attempt at establishing a digital economic democracy. Data regarding the production in a factory was entered into fax machines and sent to a level higher up in the production chain for storage and processing. If there was a problem in production, a signal was sent to the room where people decided how to solve the problem. When the error signal started the workers could decide how it would be solved, but if a timer ran out, the signal was sent one level higher. This continued up to the highest national level. Macroeconomic decisions were made here that affected the entire economy. Statistical models tried to predict the future based on different production scenarios, and an implementation of cybernetics was carried out to maintain stability in the economy. Computer screens displayed graphs and bars that made it easy for non-specialists to interpret the data.

Allende nationalized some industries and began implementing Cybersyn. But during the nationalization, paranoid factory owners began to close their factories, as well as telling the workers to stay at home. Instead, the workers went to the factory and reopened it themselves, and wrote to Allende that they supported him. This led the engineers of the Cybersyn project to fully support workers' democracy, as it saw the true power of the workers.

Such a system should be implemented again, with modernisations. In Paul Cockshot's book “Towards new Socialism”, he discusses how a computerized democratic planned economy could work. Through several layers of planning, both based on scale, geographical areas and over time. The important thing is the inclusion of democracy, because otherwise suggested proposals may not have been criticized enough and can therefore include unforeseen disadvantages. But so-called democracies with politicians with elections every four years are not very democratic, they are aristocratic.

In the book, Paul describes the problem of democratic elections, but discusses some of the Soviet system of "democratic centralism" (page 163). In that system, workers 'chancelleries (so-called Soviets) vote for people in the Communist Party who are supposed to lay the foundations for a workers' state. This is a system based on the indirect election of politicians that leads to an aristocracy of politicians and bureaucrats. There was no direct impact on what the nation was doing. Much of the macroeconomic planning in the Soviet Union took place behind closed doors, instead of through direct vote.

Instead, Paul proposes a democracy that is more similar to the model of democracy that existed in ancient Athens. Instead of voting for politicians, which is always aristocratic, people themselves should be allowed to vote on proposals directly. In Athens, the system was used by the poorer Athenians to present their proposals and class interests against the rich country and slave owners in Athens. But with elections and politicians beginning to be introduced with the trading republics in medieval Europe, which during the disappearance of feudalism and especially after the French Revolution became the norm in the world, politicians became a kind of aristocracy in themselves and did not stand for the interest of the people. The direct control of the politics of the countries was and is not in the hands of the people.

However, the idea of ​​a democratic planned economy is not as strange or extreme as it first seems. The statistical tool that would be used in a planned economy is no different from what large companies already use. The biggest difference would be the size of the project itself and that the choice of plans is democratic. Right now, financial planning takes place on the boards of companies behind closed doors and outside the workers' direct control, and is voted on by the rich financial families instead of the workers, to maximize profits instead of general happiness.

In the book, Paul writes, among other things, that all households should have the right to "TV with voice recorders", which was modern in 1993, but now a modernization of the book and his ideas are required when it comes to an implementation of them 30 years after the book was released. This modernization is called digital delegative democracy (sometimes liquid democracy). This term should be divided into its two components, "digital" and "delegative democracy".

A delegative democracy functions as a direct democracy. People vote on proposals directly. But a major disadvantage that many highlight against such a system, especially in large organizations, is that people do not have the time, knowledge or energy to find out all the nuances of what they vote for. The solution is to delegate your vote to a delegate who votes for you. What distinguishes this from regular elections is that you can change the delegate whenever you want instead of every four years, and you can exceed your delegate's vote if you do not like what it votes for. Anyone, including the delegates, can post proposals. These proposals can be tagged in different fields such as finance, healthcare, education, etc., and you can choose different delegates for the different proposal areas. In practice, the delegates' proposals would usually be voted through, because it is experts who put out the most popular proposals.

The digital part is the second part of the modernization. This means that people vote online. People can use their government ID to log in and vote or change their delegate. To ensure security and that no election fraud can occur, "distributed ledger technology" is used. This technology uses cryptography to ensure that no cheating can happen, and if it does, everyone can see it.

By gradually implementing this system in smaller parts of society, such as municipal level, unions, factories and cooperatives, to higher levels, it would give us time to improve the product until it can be implemented on a national, regional and even global scale . When it reaches the national level, various proposals for the annual budget would be voted through. In theory, anyone could put forward proposals for the budget, but trained economists or the like would in practice put forward proposals that are actually voted through. Some systems already exist such as Flowback and Liquid Feedback. 

Then, let this system be applied wherever the material conditions for digital democracy are ready, i.e. the existence of stable electricity supply and internet infrastructure. There is no reason to limit direct democracy to political elections. It is about the people taking over power from a few rich and powerful people. It is about fluid organization formation, voluntary organizations and power over one's political situation.

Learn More:

Book towards new socialism: [http://ricardo.ecn.wfu.edu/~cottrell/socialism_book/new_socialism.pdf](http://ricardo.ecn.wfu.edu/~cottrell/socialism_book/new_socialism.pdf) 

Speech on project Cybersyn:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MNWotZppGPk

An Overview of Ten Years of Liquid Democracy Research Alois Paulin

https://doi.org/10.1145/3396956.3396963