What a nice day, it thought, looking at the sun. I wonder if there's life out there, it thought, looking up at the sky. I wonder if it would be a lot like me, if it would be as intelligent as me. The network of algae stretched out far and wide in the swamp, connected in various ways to allow signals to travel, covering close to the whole planet in its thick green mush. The whole planet was a big swamp, with a thick atmosphere and large winds keeping the temperature stable almost no matter where on the planet you are. Perfect for algae growth.

What a nice day, it thought. It thought a thought. As a way to overcome obstacles and win over other algae that used to cover the swamps of the planet, it had developed a keen sense of problem solving and abstract thinking. But after it conquered all other algae, in it's boredom and abundance, it started to think. 200 years ago it thought up the axioms of geometry. 150 years ago it thought about what it means to be intelligent. 100 years ago it thought about general relativity. 75 years ago years ago it solved the theory of everything. 50 years ago it figured out what conscioussness is. 25 years ago it solved the meaning of life. Right now it's thinking about life on other planets.

What a weird day, it thought. It felt a certain itch 30 degrees north of the equator. This was not a new strand of algae. Soon it had spread rapidly, then stopped. The Algae is intelligent, but slow, as it can take a long time for signals to reach other parts of the planet. It felt like nothing the Algae had sensed before. The Algae senses could in this case not see what was going on. Then it started growing again.

What a terrible day, it thought. They had spread to large parts of the planet, and the noise started to disturb it's thinking. Large swaths of the algae had been dismantled and destroyed. It started to loose memories and cognitive functions.

The Algae could no longer think, it is a shell of its former self. It could no longer remember nor think about anything anymore. Using the last of it's auditory senses it hears "We're rebuilding this planet to a tourist ressort, there was no sign of intelligent life on this planet anyways".