



[How I cured my Aphantasia, a detailed documentation. : r/CureAphantasia](https://www.reddit.com/r/CureAphantasia/comments/vrih14/how_i_cured_my_aphantasia_a_detailed_documentation/)
Great reddit post:

# How I cured my Aphantasia, a detailed documentation.

[

Cure

](https://www.reddit.com/r/CureAphantasia/?f=flair_name%3A%22Cure%22)

**About Me**

I am a 27 year old male, a computer programmer, I run a successful software company that builds blockchain technology, and I was fully aphantasiac up until 2 days ago (June 5 2022). I have known I’ve had aphantasia for a few years and it’s always caused me distress, I didn’t even believe others were actually seeing for the first few months but after talking to enough people I concluded they weren’t exaggerating.

I am glad I had aphantasia because I believe it lead me to become a very abstract thinker, and had I been able to visualize as I was growing up and my brain developing, I don’t think I would have grown to think the way I do now, I would have instead likely just been looking at images all day long. Now that my brain has developed that thinking style, and I can now see, it has not impacted my ability to think abstractly or the old way I did, in fact I don’t even visualize at all when I switch back to my old way of thinking, but I can switch between them effortlessly. Now that I can see I would not want to go back to being an aphant.

**About My Transition**

I got very distressed 3 weeks ago about my aphantasia, I don’t know why but something changed and all of a sudden I was incredibly determined to gain vision at all costs. I think I was reading about how others are able to fantasize and it made me feel like I was missing out on a huge part of recreational activities. I started reading everything I could about aphantasia and tons of posts about people who claimed to cure theirs (though they often had very little info or details), and after 2 weeks of that I decided I would do nothing until I could see, I then spent the next 7 days trying to gain my inner vision and on day 7 it just turned on like a switch and I took detailed notes the entire time and I was very introspective and I know exactly what happened in my brain when it switched, though it can be hard to put into words, I will do my best. I want to be very detailed because I was frustrated that others hadn’t explained well how they fixed their Aphantasia so I don’t want to make that mistake, but that does mean this post will be long.

**Disclaimers:**

This is all subjective and is my own personal experience, it may be different for others. I have a lot of theory behind what happened but I don’t have a formal education in neurology or anything, so a lot of what I say may just be incorrect form a science standpoint but I am saying it from my laymen standpoint so that you can better understand how it ‘felt’ in my brain, even if that’s not what is technically occurring as far as a neurologist is concerned. I don’t care about the super scientific side of how this works, in my opinion if you are trying to cure this it’s more important to know a “feel” for what it’s like, as it’s more likely to get you into that state, even if some of the words I use are considered technically inconsistent with the science of neurology and aphantasia. Lastly, I just gained the ability to visualize so I am not skilled at all, I can’t create elaborate scenes in my mind or anything, but I can see, and see faces of loved ones, etc, so some of what I say may seem incorrect to someone with advanced visualization, but I am very new to this and explaining a lot of it from an aphant’s viewpoint, for the aphants’ sake.

**Prayer for Understanding:**

I am a Christian, I do want to include this part even though it doesn’t apply to most Redditors, but some of you are also religious and I want to document everything that I did so that no part is left out. I do think what was given to me through prayer was the understanding of the path to unlocking vision so that I can lead others there too, so even if you aren’t religious I think you will be able to follow the path that was given to me and it will work for you too. If you are religious and feel you need prayer to support you in this journey, I have prayed for everyone reading this to also be able to find success as I did, and I will likely pray that often throughout my life as I know posts online get read years later sometimes, and there is power in prayer! (In fact I’ve set a Siri reminder to remind me monthly to do this). Prayer, for me, was a huge part of this. I, in great distress, prayed to God for the ability to see because it was causing me such distress. I believe my main prayer, the day of, (though there were many) went like this “God, look at my whole life and my whole mind, have I not tried to be good for you in all things? See how I see, I can’t ‘see’; if I’ve found favor in your eyes, please grant me this gift of sight” and later that day He did! I also reflected a lot on the passage [Ephesians 3:14-21](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ephesians%203%3A14-21&version=NIV), especially the part where it says “ask or imagine” since I couldn’t imagine, that was getting me excited, because I knew I’d soon be able to; I could feel it. If you want me to pray for you specifically, feel free to ask! John 20:29

**Theory:**

Based on everything I’ve experienced now I have some theories about what is happening and I can explain them more detailed in another post but to summarize, I believe that most aphantasic people do have the ability to visualize, it’s just dormant. There may be some who truly never can, this may have to do with brain structure, but for most I truly believe you can awaken the ability. I now believe that visualization occurs in the subconscious and those who can visualize have learned from a young age how to access the subconscious. Aphantasic people, for whatever reason, I believe, simply can’t access it visually but are still forming the visuals in their subconscious, they just don’t see them and are also therefore not aware of them. I have a few reasons to believe this: Firstly, now that I can see, there is a familiarity to how I create in my mind, I just can see it all now too. Secondly, visualization isn’t like what I thought it was, you don’t just create a scene of whatever you want, instead you think about what you want to see and your brain just shows it to you and your brain is fully controlling what you see by default, you are not, so your brain will add in tons of random unrelated details that you didn’t ask for or think about and you can then look at them and they are like a surprise, these details seem subconscious related, they are always connected in weird abstract ways I’ve found. Thirdly, I could ‘feel’ it coming, and what I felt was like the visualizations were happening subconsciously, when I’d create up an imaginary scene in my head (with words only of course) and I could query my brain for creative details of the scene and sometimes it was like it was already there, so I think I was imagining in my subconscious and just finally tapped into it visually, but I think we already are tapped in in other ways. To me it felt like on the first day of my 7 day journey this was happening deep in my subconscious, almost unaccessible, but as I paid very close attention in my introspection that week I could feel it surfacing, the night of day 6 I even told my girlfriend, it feels like it’s right at the surface, I really think tomorrow is going to be the day it surfaces and my subconscious becomes conscious, and indeed it happened on day 7.

I also believe that visualizing is an umbrella and has two categories, “re-seeing” and “imagining”. For those of you who didn’t read my first post, I don’t visualize like I thought I would, I am just re-seeing stuff I’ve seen before usually, so I may think of a certain person and I don’t conjure a 3D model of that person but rather I am just seeing them again from previous times I’ve seen them, sometimes I even recognize it like you’d recognize a photo you took of someone. I don’t yet ‘imagine’, so I can’t just create a scene of whatever I want. I believe re-seeing is the first step and imagining comes later but I do believe they are separate processes. I can justify this slightly with the following concept, if they are separate processes, then maximizing their ability would lead to different results, and that does seem to be the case—Someone who has master-level “re-seeing” would have a photographic memory, re-seeing things in exact detail. Someone who has master-level imagining would have hyperphantasia, able to create hyper realistic scene. But if these are separate processes then not every hyperphant would have a photographic memory, and not everyone with a photographic memory would have hyperphantasic imagination, and this does seem to be the case, so it supports my theory.

**Preparation:**

Curing my aphantasia was a 7 day process (though it turned on in an instant, like a switch), but I don’t believe the process will take that long for some, the majority of this time was spent figuring out what I was even needing to be doing to unlock vision, I did a lot of un-necessary stuff which I now know was not helping. The biggest part of the stuff that did help during that 7 days was shifting my mindset, I’m naturally a very skeptical, rational, and stubborn person, all three of which are awful for seeing what isn’t there. So it took me days of meditating to get into the right headspace.

I spent 6 days just relaxing, and meditating, and trying to visualize using various techniques like image-streaming, listening to fiction audio books with my eyes closed, listening to 'theta hemi sync' audio, or watching a cartoon then rewatching it with my eyes closed. In hindsight I don’t think this did anything to help me develop the ability to see because I couldn’t see to begin with so what would it be developing, but I do think what it did was get the visual parts of my brain in-gear for preparing to imagine and it also made me a much more visual person in the moment, I began noticing the details of everything in nature and giving them much more of my focus and joy. This put my mind in a more visual/creative state I believe, and that may have helped me transition into seeing.

I did guided hypnosis to get me into a relaxed state I had not previously known. I did this many times throughout the 6 days, the video I used was [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4YpJ7omZcTg) ("confusion induction") which is very helpful because it doesn’t rely on visuals. I knew it worked because, laying in my bed, I felt as if I had sunk into my bed and out of my body a little, I had never felt this before and I knew I was in a deeply relaxed state. I believe being in this deeply relaxed state was crucial in the process because becoming able to see deals with tapping in to your subconscious and being very relaxed makes that an easy transition, if visualizing was just about seeing with your physical eyes then being very relaxed would not be important in my opinion.

The most important part of all of this, by far though, is belief. You have to believe you are seeing even when you aren’t, and it’s hard to explain what I mean by that but it may make more sense in ‘the process’ section below, but in-order for me to achieve that child-like state of being naive and imaginative about the world and all of its magic, I took some [legal] weed edibles which puts me in a more perceptive/accepting state of mind (but does not (and did not) give me visuals). I don’t think this part is necessary for everyone, but for me I can’t reach that naive child-like belief state without this assistance, and being in that state is crucial for letting your subconscious start showing you images. I was not using this recreationally, I was using it to help achieve a certain state of mind for the sake of my meditation and visualization practice. I don’t normally partake in weed (except in Colorado on vacation) but I took a dosage that got me pretty high, suppose N mg of THC gets you to just the point where you are feeling relaxed and happier, and M mg of THC gets you so high that time is skipping and you need to go lay down, I took probably 70% of the way to M from N. For me that was 50mg but I have an absurd tolerance according to my peers, I think for them it would have been closer to 15mg. (The edible I used had D8 and D10 as well, I am just referring to the D9 mg content).

I also, the whole week had been taking a ton of holistic things to help induce lucid dreaming (all of which failed), I don’t think they played any role in this but just for the sake of documenting, I’ll include that I was drinking a lot of Mugwort tea and Egyptian Blue Lotus tea and Kava tea (the Kava was nice for meditation/relaxing), and I also was taking the following which are all said to help induce lucid dreams (but didn’t for me): Galantamine, DMAE, Centrophenoxine, Huperzine-A, Uridine, Shilajit, Magnesium L-Threonate, Bacopa, Alpha GPC, Choline L-Bitartrate, L-theanine, Polygala Tenuifolia, Nascent Iodone, Melatonin. Again, I don’t think any of this is needed (except maybe the Kava for meditation), I am just including it for thorough documentation sake.

**The Process:**

If you just skipped to this section I strongly recommend reading the ‘theory’ and ‘preparation’ sections above first.

The first step was to get deeply relaxed and also in a state of mind of willing to believe and be naive, to do this I meditated for days and utilized [guided hypnosis](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4YpJ7omZcTg) to get deeply relaxed, and utilized marijuana to get to the naive child-like state of belief and wonder about the magic of the world.

Once in this state, I sat outside for about 30 minutes listening to zen music and getting my eyes a lot of sunlight and imagery. The sun was bright, I looked at it in passing a few times. I think it was important to get my physical eyes activated like this, even though they have nothing to do with visualizing, it helped at some of the stages leading up to visualizing.

After this, I went and laid down and relaxed my eyes shut but they didn’t shut all of the way, so some visual stimulation was getting in from the crack in the bottom, I wasn’t squinting though as that requires strain, I was just relaxed and my eyelids were naturally ever so slightly separated. I think letting in this little amount of visual info was important in the stages leading up to visualizing because it gave my brain something to work with. I have created an image representing what I was seeing of my living room with my eyes in this state so you can try to replicate it, you can view that image [here](https://i.imgur.com/TbBC6jn.png).

Once in this state, deeply relaxed, and expecting to start seeing, I started noticing on my eyelids, small visual distortions, they looked like horizontal grey bars, this is subjective to my experience so you may see something else, but I just started noticing them, they were moving a lot, and I wanted to just watch them, my eyes were fluctuating shut and ever so cracked during this time. I made a visual of what I was seeing, you can view that image [here](https://i.imgur.com/UjCMgRb.png).

After a minute or so these lines turned to some sort of structure that I think resembled the grout in a brick, I also want to note that this is not visualizing, this is just seeing byproducts of your eyes. I attempted an animation of what I was seeing, though what I actually saw was skewed at a 3D angle, not head on like what I’ve drawn here, and it was moving faster I think, I’m not the best with animation software, but I saw brick-grout pattern scrolling across my eyes vertically and slightly angled away from me or to the side slightly perhaps, anyways [here](https://i.imgur.com/GtiAQBO.gif) is my visual aid.

Once I saw this, I decided to just convince myself that I was seeing brick, this is the tricky part, I believe why it’s so hard to tap into our subconscious and see is because we are naturally very rational people, so our left-brain wants to take over and say, no, there’s not bricks there, but because of the state of mind I was in, I was able to just allow my right-brain to go for it. Once I started truly believing it was a brick wall/surface, I got curious if I could see other surfaces. I tried changing it to maybe tiles (so the grout became square instead of rectangular), to be honest I can’t remember if I even succeeded in doing this or not but I was just trying and being a little creative and believing and after a few moments of that I came back to the scrolling brick wall.

Once I believed I was seeing a brick wall (I wasn’t visualizing yet btw, just seeing with my eyes and allowing my brain to be convinced that what I was seeing was what I was thinking), I started wondering if I could see the edge of this brick wall, so I tried to imagine (conceptually of course) the corner of the wall, to my surprise I was able to somewhat do it, this part is going to be really hard to explain because I wasn’t visualizing the edge of the wall (I couldn’t visualize yet, only see with my physical eyes still) but I kind of was believing it was there and the patterns were getting so vague I could kind of just pretend there was an edge where one wall met the next and the angles were changing, and also I think I was using my spatial awareness to kind of sense the depth of this “wall” and how there was an angle where it was bending into the next wall around the corner of the edge.

This is where things got interesting, I still wasn’t visualizing, but I was in this state of mind where I was kind of believing that what I was seeing could be what I was kind of thinking it into (not that I had any real control over it at this point beyond what I described above), and so I decided to try and turn it into more corners, and I started turning it into the top corners of buildings, I’ve included a visual aid for what that looked like but please take this with a grain of salt because it’s not entirely like I was seeing the residual light patterns in this shape, it was a mix of what I was seeing, what I was ignoring to see, what I was believing, and what I was kind of projecting my spatial awareness towards, and with a mix of all of that I was able to convince myself I was now seeing the top corner of buildings and it “felt/looked” something like [this](https://i.imgur.com/UTvOEUV.png). (Note: I removed the eye-crack from this illustration, I don’t remember if my eyes were fully shut or not, it’s just easier to draw without that in the image, I was not paying attention to my eye-lids at all so I just let them naturally do whatever they did, my eye-lids were very relaxed, I was not trying to control them or even think about them).

After a few of these various corners I made my brain sense/“see” (I wasn’t visualizing), something weird happened and this is when it started clicking I think, I RECOGNIZED one of the corners I was molding with my brain/belief/sense/etc, it was the corner of the brick building of my high school. I believe this was the first moment where my subconscious surfaced, because previously I had been looking at random stuff but now I was looking at something from my own memory that I had a connection to. This is the key, and it happened on its own, and I’ve never experienced it before. (Again, I am using the word ‘looking’ just as a figure of speech, what I was doing is hard to explain but it was much more mental/belief based and ‘feeling’ than seeing, though I was seeing visual light patterns that helped me kind of build up this imaginary wall I was letting my brain pretend existed, it was more like I sensed it than saw it, or a combination of both perhaps).

Once I realized that I was no longer “looking” at random patterns but at a pattern I recognized, I decided I should try see more things I recognized, I may have tried a few more office building corners, I don’t remember, but I did shortly after decide to remember then “see” (again, I wasn’t visualizing yet, but I was experiencing something) the face of someone very meaningful to me, whom I had an powerfully emotional separation from (I think it is important how painfully emotionally relevant this person was to me). Here’s where things get weird, I started see-sense-feeling various facial components, instead of corners of buildings it was random face components like ears, eyes, lips. The visual artifacts were getting odd here too, the lips for example would have very bright cracks in them because the way the light interference was influencing what I “felt” I was “seeing”. I think at this point my conscious brain was starting to work with my subconscious brain and they were finding a middle ground they could meet at, though I really don’t know if I was actually visualizing yet, this stage was perhaps the very beginning of a transition? Anyways, [here](https://i.imgur.com/VMTwQX2.png) is a visual aid of one of the lips that I “saw”.

I have a really important analogy for the above step, you know how you look at clouds and can start to see shapes in them and animals and can pretend that its those animals (we of course don’t actually “see” anything other than the literal cloud itself, but we kind of get a familiarity for the shape, that it does indeed resemble the thing we are trying to “see”), this is like that, I was seeing facial components but most of it was me believing the light artifacts and other brain signals I was getting were that facial component the same way you may believe the cloud is a dog. You’re more so forcing you brain to see it as more than it is just like you do with clouds.

Now the magic moment, after “see-sense-feeling-forcing-believing” a few various facial components, I saw an eye but not just any eye, I RECOGNIZED this eye (just like I recognized the building corner), this WAS 100% the eye of the person I was trying to think of, it was unmistakable, this was no longer just random visual distortions happening, my brain just showed me an image of something I wanted, and the second I realized what had happened it was like a flip switched, my brain went “ding ding ding” and my logical brain finally agreed with my creative brain that it really was there, I wasn’t just pretending anymore. The second that happened tons of images of faces started flashing into my head and I was SEEING them, it was like I had a few 3D projectors in my mind flashing on and off with different photos of this person and of me and of me and this person and I recognized all of them like they were photos I took. I have a visual aid of the eye I “saw” [here](https://i.imgur.com/ZiP3us9.png), and a visual aid of the 3D projectors flashing faces [here](https://i.imgur.com/uDMqe8P.png)**.** (I just used random photos from the internet because I was seeing people I personally know).

Ever since then, it was on, I could access my imagination just by closing my eyes and trying to see lips, even now that’s my go to stimulant to wake up my imagination and its almost instant and then I can start seeing other things (I don’t think I need this eventually, for now I am just still new to getting into the state). There is one other thing I want to note now that I can introspect about what’s happening after the fact. When I shift to my minds eye it really is a ‘shift’ like I’m shifting focus away from my natural eyes and to my minds eye, the same way you may adjust your focus with your eyes, I am adjusting focus onto that new screen I have access to (which overlays my physical eye screen too but I just zone out of focus on those eyes).

**Aftermath:**

I can see now, it’s day 3, I have had nothing other than normal food and water since my eye opened. I have taken no supplements, drugs, teas, anything, I can just see now. It is also improving, I can see better today than I could yesterday. I also am feeling other changes in my life beyond just seeing, I previously was a very jaded person and not sentimental at all, in fact sentimental just seemed inefficient and irrational, but now I’m much more emotionally attached to things and emotion is invoked much more easily, I am also getting deja-vu feelings which I don’t know how to explain but it’s like how you sometimes smell something and it takes you back to an old memory you forgot, I am now sometimes having that happen with certain emotional states that my subconscious delivers up for me. I believe I did not just open my mind’s eye but I also just generally tapped into my subconscious which is why things like art now make me feel something whereas before they always seemed pretty but pointless and I never understood why people would pay to go stand in a museum of art. I can’t yet imagine but my re-seeing ability is getting better and I now plan to work on developing it using image-streaming and other techniques which previously would have done nothing for helping me see better since I wasn’t seeing with my minds eye, only my real eyes.

If this helps you and you end up being able to see with your minds eye PLEASE do not be silent about it. Create an account if you have to, and let us know!

----------

Edit: It's now been 2 weeks, I am still seeing, my mind's vision is improving as well, it is very slow but the differences even since last week are becoming very apparent.

I hopped on to write this edit because I experienced my first disadvantage to visualizing today, and wanted to share. My girlfriend said to me "I need a giant tub of coconut oil", my old way of thinking I would have interpreted that sentence by rapidly deducing the most likely meaning based on context, but this time, my subconscious, on its own, conjured up an image of a large bath-tub filled with coconut oil, and I was visualizing that (very weakly) before I could process it how I normally would, and it took me a moment to realize she wasn't talking about that kind of tub; a mistake like this would have never been made when I was totally aphantasiac.In other news, I am still keeping detailed notes of my journey and drawing up visual aids of what I am seeing as I improve, as well as documenting the various steps to improving. One thing I've noticed is that I seem to have two different forms of visualizing. The main one, which I described unlocking in this post, allows me to see in a space that overlaps what I see with my eyes, its a lot more interpretive, like images being formed out of random visual noise, but they become very real the more I focus on them. The second one is something I unlocked a few days after, automatically (I didn't do anything it just started slowly turning on as well) and is much more memory based, this "screen" is completely in its own space and does not overlap my actual field-of-vision space (subsequently, it doesn't matter if my eyes are closed or not for this 'vision'). It's more literal and less interpretive, I don't have much creative control over it (with my first form, when I see things, like a person for example, I can effortlessly change their clothes, and the clothes they were wearing at first are random; with my second form, the clothes they are wearing are memory-based and will be clothes I have seen them in before, trying to change these with my mind is difficult and these images are much more fleeting, in fact I can't "hold" them yet, I can only experience them for a flash before they're gone). I've talked with a few phantasiac people and they seem to have one or the other—I imagine when you're very young you just pick the one which is strongest/easiest for your brain and abandon the other, and forget about it because you were so young. This is just a theory of course. I am working on training both, but the later is more difficult to make progress in, but it's nice that it can be trained on-the-go, whenever, with eyes open, unlike the original form I unlocked, which requires focus and closed eyes or a darker environment (granted its weak for me, maybe more developed seers don't need the dark).

Edit: Day 18 — just had my second experience of a new advantage to being able to visualize (the first being that of solving hiragana multiple choice, referenced in my previous post _[Edit: mods deleted that post, but basically when presented with a Japanese word audibly, I can now 'see' the characters that create the word and then pick them from a list, whereas before I'd have to look at each option on the list and 'check' one by one if it was the correct word, now I can just visually match it with the word I saw in my head, which is much faster, and would be apparent on a multiple-choice list of 100+ options])_ — this time, I was needing to fold a piece of paper into a makeshift pouch/envelope, I tried twice and failed and the paper was getting crumpled, then I closed my eyes and just tried on paper in my mind, it was not hard at all, it was much faster, I could "reset" the paper back to flat, instantly, and within maybe only 10 iterations I found a fold pattern that worked, then I opened my eyes and folded it on the real paper and it worked perfectly! This is something I could have never done before when I only had an inner monologue, and I am now wondering if really skilled origami artists create patterns in their head when they are relaxing in their off-time.

Edit: Day 29 — I am making very little progress, it's a slow and tedious process but I do train every day, anyways I wanted to hop on to share this, something neat since my eye opened, I now dream long vivid dreams every single night, there hasn't been a night that I haven't dreamed. Previously I would have a visual dream very rarely, perhaps once a month or two, and it was only a very tiny non-vivid snippet, like a 5 second scene, whereas now its every night and its multi-hour long continuous stories. I don't have much else to say about it, just thought it was note-worthy.

Edit: Day 46 — I am starting to make more noticeable progress; I got on to talk about two things that I find noteworthy.

First, I have learned since unlocking visualization that the form of visualization I unlocked is called 'prophantasia', also shortly after unlocking prophantasia my mind also began slowly unlocking regular phantasia all on its own (mine triggers from memories), both are very weak and I am developing both. I'd say I'm at a 2/10 on a visualization scale. Anyways, as I train my (closed eye) prophantasia, during my best sessions, I am able to actually open my eyes and "project" what I am seeing into the real world. I had read about this ability in some visualizers previously and thought it was so magical sounding but now that I experience it, it is so much less magical than it sounds. Allow me to shatter the illusion, all that is actually happening is you are simply merging your vision with your 3rd eye (mind's eye) into your 1st and 2nd eyes (physical eyes), you do this all the time with your 2 physical eyes, if one gets slightly blocked you can "look through it" and see what's behind the blockage because your mind just merges what your other eye is seeing into your field of view in that localized spot... it's the same thing here except you're just merging a part of your minds eye into your physical eyes' field of view, it's not at all like Pokemon-go augmented-reality projecting where things go into the real world and track with it, you're just 50% translucently shifting your localized gaze to your imagination in that spot and so it blends into the real world partially. I'd imagine once you get very skilled you could simulate "tracking" it and it would be more like an augmented-reality experience, but it isn't like that at all for me right now, if I walk forward the thing I'm projecting slides forward with me, it isn't actually projected "into" the real world.

Second, some of the pros to visualization are so surreal to me and it's funny because they are things you never hear visualizers talk about because to them they are so obvious and taken for granted. If you ask a visualizer what its like being able to visualize, what the benefits are, they will answer like "I can rotate an apple in my head" which I understand why they answer like that, because they don't know what the actually truly valuable benefits are, because to them those benefits are trivial and never thought about. To me this was a mind-blowing one (keep in mind I still visualize only on-command for the most part, whereas for native visualizers, the screen seems to be more automatic and "always on", as often as one's inner monologue is "always on"), anyways, every once in a while my mind will automatically visualize without me telling it to, and it's always fascinating... this mind blower in particular happened when I was texting an old friend last night. My brain, on its own, showed me my friend in my head and as I read his messages, he was there "infront of me" and was smiling and using his mannerisms and facial expressions and gestures as I read his text and it completely changed the experience and even the context of his messages, texting actually feels like a real emotional connection now! In the past, texting for me was always more or less a mundane exercise and felt more like I was just talking to my phone, or like I downloaded an app and was just talking to this app, not actually talking to the other person; and naturally texting was always robotic and more-or-less emotionless for me, like a chore. It never felt like I was actually talking to the other person. This was a truly surreal experience, I felt so much more emotional relevancy as I talked to my friend, I actually felt camaraderie. To me, this alone has been one of the strongest benefits to being able to see in my mind now, but if you asked a native visualizer, this is something they'd probably never even bring up because it's so trivial and obvious to them they don't even think about the small stuff like this.

Edit: Day 53 — I keep getting so many epiphanies as I transition from never having had a visual to becoming a visualizer. Most I've written down in my notes but not added here, but this one I wanted to add here because it's just so fascinating to me. My whole life I've never understood brand-marketing. It has zero effect on me, but the data is clear that it works... I always just assumed maybe the ultra simple minded were having it work for them and dragging the average up; now that I can visualize I know that is not the case at all. If you see a truck driving with 'bud light' logo on it, you won't think anything of it... if your friends say "Do you want to go to bar with us" you will pretty much have no thoughts (compared to how visualizers think, trust me), you may think yes or no or maybe have secondary thoughts like "what time", "with who"... it's not like that for visualizers; they may also ask those questions later on, but they are not defaulting to inner-monologue thought, the very first thing that happens in their mind is they see themselves at the bar ("the bar", not "a bar", they already picked one out without trying, the subconscious does it for them, just like you don't create your dreams, your brain effortlessly fills in the details for you, it's the same with visualizing), likewise in this visual they already see which friends are there, and they even will see what beer they are drinking. What beer do you think this is? The visual creation is automatic, we aren't thinking "Oh I should render a beer in my imagination, let me pick one", it happens on its own by our subconscious (just like dreams), and what does our subconscious pick? Well, probably our favorite beer, but if we don't have a favorite beer it just defaults to what it's seen recently and frequently. This is why brand marketing works, most people will then see themselves holding a bud light if they've seen bud light billboards recently. Then, when they go to the bar, they will just order a bud light because in their mind that's what they've already been drinking in this scenario. (Note: This is a bad example because most people have beer preferences, I do not so this works for me... but generally this can be extrapolated to brand marketing in all industries and it surely works). Was pretty eye-opening for me because I've worked in marketing in the past and never understood brand-marketing, but I also had no ability to engage with my subconscious, whereas 90%+ of people are engaging with their subconscious 1000 times a day.

Edit: Day 54 — I have some new theory on how the ability to visualize forms in the brain naturally, and how you can potentially follow that same path. It is way too much for this post, I've posted it [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/CureAphantasia/comments/wbgprd/recollection_as_a_foundation_for_visualizing/).

Edit: Day 65 — New theory/training posted [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/CureAphantasia/comments/wlcc28/inducing_palinopsia_to_activate_prophantasia/). Also, I am hitting the character limit on this post, so this will likely be my last update.