[Browse by Category, Concise Encyclopedia of Economics, 1st edition | Library of Economics and Liberty](https://www.econlib.org/library/Enc1/CEECategory.html)


I think it's unoptimized because individiuals are not rational and markets are not in perfect competition. If everyone was perfectly rational with perfect information, under perfect competition (no monoplies etc.) then the theorems of neoclassical economics would actually hold and capitalism would be extremely optimal according to the fundamental theorem of welfare economics (the situation ends up being best for everyone). I also think one leftist economist found that when taking into account a game-theoretic formalism of power dynamics between employer and employee, most theorems in neoclassical economics no longer hold. So assuming non-rationality, non-perfect markets and power dynamics, then we're better of with a socialist distribution system. Preferably something like worker cooperatives in cooperative agreements with consumer cooperatives, ran on a (liquid) democratic basis. Democratic decision making, such as liquid democracy with score voting, can be very close to being optimised for pareto efficiency when people delegate to people more knowlegable than themselves. Applying this to economic planning would likely be more optimized.







Rayne said something:

> 1. My first thought is that when we discuss wealth it is important to distinguish between two types of wealth, absolute wealth and relative wealth. Absolute wealth is simply the amount of objects and potential command over other objects and services you have, whilst relative wealth is measured in terms of how much you have in comparison to someone else of scarce resources. My second thought is that we should distinguish between use value and utility. For example, say we have four coats. Four coats has quadruple the use value of one coat because it has use for four people, however, four coats for a single individual does not have quadruple the utility, instead the marginal utility for each coat is less than the previous coat, so the individual only attains a very limited amount of utility which is much less in degree than quadruple the utility of one coat. My third thought is that when we are evaluating the value of an object or service, we must reflect on both its labour value and its subjective value in order to determine the economic behaviour of the object or service. What type of value determines the economic behaviour of the objects or services is content dependent. Art is an excellent example of where subjective value most determines the economic behaviour of the commodities instead of labour value. In agriculture however, it is instead labour value that most determines the economic behaviour of the commodities. Fourthly, labour does not just have quantitative value but qualitative value, in the arts or wherever there are marks of uniqueness in the objects being formed or services being performed, there is a qualitative nature to the labour as the labour is put into making a unique object or service.
    
2. _[_23:52_]_
    
    Fifthly, as an example to show how qualitative value of labour and subjective value are different, I will refer to cryptocurrencies. The cryptocurrency of say, dogecoin, adopts an entirely fabricated value that is not tied to any labour at all. The value of dogecoin is subjectively tied to simply the level of confidence in the cryptocurrency that it has a certain amount of value. With the qualitative value of labour, the evaluation of the consequent measurable worth of the qualitative value is based on subjective, individual factors, but this estimation does not in any way change the actual qualitative value of the labour. Subjective value however, is entirely changeable in accordance with the evaluation of value set by the individuals, in this way qualitative labour value and subjective value have a relationship but are finely distinct. The measurable worth estimated of the qualitative value is a subjective value. Sixthly then, we can say that unique articles of say, art, are backed by a qualitative value, even though the evaluation of their measurable worth is subjective. A cryptocurrency in contrast, such as dogecoin, whose value is entirely based on the confidence that it has a certain value, is entirely subjective without any qualitative backing. So whilst subjective value is one of the two main determinants of economic behaviour besides labour value, qualitative value is what backs up certain measures of subjective value, though qualitative value on its own isn't considered a determinant of economic behaviour. That art piece of a banana taped with duct-tape on a wall that sold for $150,000 still has its subjective value backed by the fact that it is a qualitatively unique item. Tulip mania is an example of tulips adopting a very high subjective value that isn’t backed at all by qualitative value.



