[The Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen Argument in Quantum Theory (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/qt-epr/)
[Observable - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observable#:~:text=Compatible%20and%20incompatible%20observables%20in%20quantum%20mechanics,-A%20crucial%20difference&text=Observables%20corresponding%20to%20non%2Dcommuting,the%20same%20axis%20are%20incompatible.&text=%2C%20but%20not%20enough%20in%20number%20to%20constitute%20a%20complete%20basis.)


"The EPR text is concerned, in the first instance, with the logical connections between two assertions. One asserts that quantum mechanics is incomplete. The other asserts that incompatible quantities (those whose operators do not commute, like the _x_-coordinate of position and linear momentum in direction _x_) cannot have simultaneous “reality” (i.e., simultaneously real values). The authors assert the disjunction of these as a first premise (later to be justified): one or another of these must hold. It follows that if quantum mechanics were complete (so that the first assertion failed) then the second one would hold; i.e., incompatible quantities cannot have real values simultaneously. They take as a second premise (also to be justified) that if quantum mechanics were complete, then incompatible quantities (in particular coordinates of position and momentum) could indeed have simultaneous, real values. They conclude that quantum mechanics is incomplete. The conclusion certainly follows since otherwise (if the theory were complete) one would have a contradiction over simultaneous values. Nevertheless the argument is highly abstract and formulaic and even at this point in its development one can readily appreciate Einstein’s disappointment."


$\neg C\vee \neg S$
$C\rightarrow S$
$S\rightarrow \bot$
Therefore
$\neg C$


"In order to get at the issue of completeness, a primary question for EPR is to determine when a quantity has a definite value. For that purpose they offer a minimal sufficient condition (p. 777):

> If, without in any way disturbing a system, we can predict with certainty (i.e., with probability equal to unity) the value of a physical quantity, then there exists an element of reality corresponding to that quantity.

This sufficient condition for an “element of reality” is often referred to as the EPR _Criterion of Reality_. By way of illustration EPR point to those quantities for which the quantum state of the system is an eigenstate. It follows from the Criterion that at least these quantities have a definite value; namely, the associated eigenvalue, since in an eigenstate the corresponding eigenvalue has probability one, which we can determine (predict with certainty) without disturbing the system. In fact, moving from eigenstate to eigenvalue to fix a definite value is the only use of the Criterion in EPR."

"They proceed by sketching an iconic thought experiment whose variations continue to be important and widely discussed. The experiment concerns two quantum systems that are spatially distant from one another, perhaps quite far apart, but such that the total wave function for the pair links both the positions of the systems as well as their linear momenta. In the EPR example the total linear momentum is zero along the _x_-axis. Thus if the linear momentum of one of the systems (we can call it Albert’s) along the _x_-axis were found to be _p_, the _x_-momentum of the other system (call it Niels’) would be found to be −_p_. At the same time their positions along _x_ are also strictly correlated so that determining the position of one system on the _x_-axis allows us to infer the position of the other system along _x_. The paper constructs an explicit wave function for the combined (Albert+Niels) system that embodies these links even when the systems are widely separated in space. Although commentators later raised questions about the legitimacy of this wave function, it does appear to guarantee the required correlations for spatially separated systems, at least for a moment (Jammer 1974, pp. 225–38; see also Halvorson 2000). In any case, one can model the same conceptual situation in other cases that are clearly well defined quantum mechanically (see [Section 3.1](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/qt-epr/#SpinBohmVers))."
TODO: Make a diagram of this!

"At this point of the argument (p. 779) EPR make two critical assumptions, although they do not call special attention to them. (For the significance of these assumptions in Einstein’s thinking see Howard 1985 and also section 5 of the entry on [Einstein](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/einstein-philscience/).) The first assumption (_separability_) is that at the time when the systems are separated, maybe quite far apart, each has its own reality. In effect, they assume that each system maintains a separate identity characterized by a real physical state, even though each system is also strictly correlated with the other in respect both to momentum and position. They need this assumption to make sense of another. The second assumption is that of _locality_. Given that the systems are far apart, locality supposes that “no real change can take place” in one system as a direct consequence of a measurement made on the other system. They gloss this by saying “at the time of measurement the two systems no longer interact.” Note that locality does not require that nothing at all about one system can be disturbed directly by a distant measurement on the other system. Locality only rules out that a distant measurement may directly disturb or change what is counted as “real“ with respect to a system, a reality that separability guarantees. On the basis of these two assumptions they conclude that each system can have definite values (“elements of reality”) for both position and momentum simultaneously. There is no straightforward argument for this in the text. Instead they use these two assumptions to show how one could be led to assign position and momentum eigenstates to one system by making measurements on the other system, from which the simultaneous attribution of elements of reality is supposed to follow. Since this is the central and most controversial part of the paper, it pays to go slowly here in trying to reconstruct an argument on their behalf."

