Imagine the statement _Jesus is a Socialist_ It is a narrative of the bible as read by different groups of people. We will represent this view by _Js_ the "Complete narrative" of the bible, which would be every line and sentence in the bible is notated by _B_. A reading of specific lines of the bible are notated as _b_ `b ⊆ B, but b =/= B`, this could be one passage or just one sentence. Now the proponents of _Js_ get their view by inferring from a specific subset of _B_ lets call it _bs_ (lol). The opponents instead refer to _bn_. The first assumption is that `it is possible that bn ⊆ bs V bs ⊆ bn, but bn =/= bs` therefore we have different narratives. Now pressupose that _B_ is possible (that is to say you can have a true understanding of the bible), how do when than infer if `B -> Js V B -> -Js`. We have a problem here since `B =/= bn V bs` We cant prove _bn_ or _bs_ from _B_. So even if we had a complete understanding of the bible it does not give us the ability to deductively infer either _Js_ or _-Js_. This is because both _Js_ and _-Js_ are meta narratives, they use incomplete parts of _B_ which we again call _b_ to infer a proposition like _Js_. This is true for all startements than can be created from _b_. Now you ask can we create a complete statemnt from _B_ lets call it _C_. Well that statemnt would be _B_ the narrative of the complete bible _C_ `B = C`, as we can see than a complete narrative of the bible is not a narrative in itself but just the bible without any narratives. This is why the quackers can say jesus was a socialist and Prageru claim he was a libertarian without anyone knowing capital T Truth.