The anglophone tradition, in both philosophy and psychology, largely accepted the empiricist thesis that all concepts can be (indeed, must be) defined in a primitive basis of sensory concepts like (e.g.) RED or HOT or (maybe) ROUND. This empiricist semantics was in turn supposed to be grounded in an epistemology according to which all knowledge is experiential in the long run. I think, however, that even the friends of definitions now pretty generally agree that the empiricist project failed;⁴ it was a cautionary example of what happens when you try to read your semantics off your epistemology. In fact, our concepts invariably overrun their experiential basis; trees and rocks aren’t, after all, reducible to tree-experiences or rock-experiences. That should hardly seem surprising, since experiences are mind-dependent (no minds, no experiences), but trees and rocks are not. Also, you can climb trees and throw rocks, but you can’t climb or throw sensations. And so forth. Empiricism couldn’t but founder on such ontological truisms. In contrast with the empiricist tradition, discussions of the primitive basis for conceptual(/lexical) reductions in cognitive science often favor the idea that it consists not just sensory concepts but also of some very abstract ‘metaphysical’ concepts like CAUSE, AGENT, ACTION, FACT, EVENT, etc. (see e.g. Carey 1985; Jackendoff 1993). As far as I know, however, there are no serious proposals for cashing the ‘etc.’.⁵ For one thing, it’s very unclear what makes some concepts metaphysical and others not. For another thing, neither sensory concepts nor the putative metaphysical ones generally behave in the ways that primitive concepts presumably ought to. For example, I suppose that (all else equal) a primitive concept ought to be more accessible in ‘performance’ tasks than the concepts that it is used to define; or, ⁴ However, see Prinz (2002). at a minimum, that primitive concepts should be acquired no later than the complex concepts of which they are constituents. By these sorts of criteria, however, the psychological data do not support the thesis that the primitives are either sensory or very abstract, or a combination of the two.


Logically necessary ($P\wedge Q \rightarrow P$) Nomonologically necessary ($v < c$) and analytically necessary ($UNMARRIED$ is contained in $BACHELOR$)
All justified a priori supposidely?