

1. Basically, Schopenhauer is a _russellian identity cosmic panagentialist_. He thinks that scientific knowledge is only about the causal structure of the cosmos (_epistemic structural realism_) : science tells us what the world _does_ (more precisely, what it _appears_ to do from what we can publicly perceive of it), but not what it _is_ (in itself, besides its mere appearance in perception). However, there's one phenomenon of which we know more than the mere appearance or causal structure, because we know _what it's like_ to be a living organism. We phenomenally experience our being part of the causal network of the universe as _willing_. Our agency is what it's like to be an organism causally interacting with the world, and what it's like to be something is what it is to be it (_ontic idealism_). Therefore, Schopenhauer concludes that there are inscrutables beneath any apparent causal network, and that these inscrutables are akin to what we phenomenally experience (_russellianism_) as willing ; hence the general claim that the will is the interior of causality, i.e. the world in itself. Everything that exists fundamentally is a willing subject (_panagentialism_). He's also a _cosmopsychist_, because he's both a _panpsychist_ (panagentialism is a kind of panpsychism) and a _priority monist_. He thinks that fundamentally, only the cosmos (as a willing subject) exists, and that all its proper parts exist only insofar as the cosmos is represented to a subject (through perception). Because of some inherent dispositions of the cosmos (explained by its willing nature), it individuated itself into organisms that are both subjects of will and of intellect. Every subject is said to be identical to the cosmic willing subject (_identity cosmopsychism_). The intellect (access consciousness) is reducible to the organism (extrinsic appearance of an individuated subject), whereas the will (phenomenal consciousness) is irreducible. (ändrad)
    
