[[Putnam]] [[Putnam's Paradox]]


From manif0ld:
"Maybe it would help a bit if I give some of my background and how I found my way to this question because it probably give you a good idea of how I'm thinking about this. When I was doing research my area was general relativity. There aren't too many big philosophical philosophical questions relating to GR, but one that comes up a lot is the "hole argument". This is basically a specialised version of the model theoretic argument. Now in GR everyone agrees that coordinates are useful things to work with, and indeed we can label events in spacetime with coordinates. But there is no meaning to statements about e.g. what's going on "at the event with coordinates (1,0,0,0)" _in the absence of some choice of coordinate_, and likewise if we change coordinates we should not be surprised when "what's going on at (1,0,0,0)" changes. So far so good, but what about sets and models? Well, a model of GR is a Lorentzian manifold, and there is also general agreement in GR that _isometric_ manifolds represent the same spacetime. Now, the "hole argument" centres around the idea that we can take a Lorentzian manifold, shuffle around the elements of the underlying set, and _as long as we also shuffle around the relations etc. that are associated with those elements in a compensatory way_, we will get a new Lorentzian manifold which is isometric to the old one, but where the isometry is _not_ the identity map. To make things more concrete, suppose that two of the points of my Lorentzian manifold are {} and {{}} in my original model, and each of these points satisfy various relations etc. Now I can make a new Lorentzian manifold, where the role that was formerly played by {} is now played by {{}}, and vice versa. This has been used to make all sorts of arguments, like that spacetime events are not really individuals etc. (notice that this is exactly the same argument you alluded to above w.r.t. numbers not being "objects"). In my view this is really a mistake. The right thing to say is that any statement that is not preserved by isometries is not really meaningful, and that includes statements about which set is playing a particular role. In other words I think the right attitude to take towards these questions is the same attitude that everyone already takes towards coordinates: there is no fact of the matter regarding "which point is (1,0,0,0)" in the absence of a choice of coordinates, just as there is no fact regarding which point is {{}} in the absence of a choice of model. The fact that we can create lots of different but isomorphic models should be thought of in the same way that we already think about there being lots of different coordinate systems we can use: this just gives us lots of different ways to talk about a single object. It doesn't mean that there are no spacetime points or that points are somehow weird, only that there are many different ways of representing those points by coordinates or by sets. It is often useful to fix on a specific model for the purpose of doing computations, just as it is often useful to fix on a specific coordinate system, but at the end of the day "physical" quantities like the distance between a pair of points are independent of any choice of coordinates. Points are not individuated by their coordinates (since we can always choose different coordinates) nor by what set plays the role of those points in a model (since we can always use a different model with different sets playing a given role), but by the role they play in the overarching structure."