[[Phenomenalism]]

[Full article: Carnap meets Foucault: conceptual engineering and genealogical investigations (tandfonline.com)](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0020174X.2020.1860122#d1e418)

> Can't one supplement a Carnapian formal approach in some ways to get around it? In fact, two sources for where the needed supplement may come from suggest themselves: the history and the sociology of science. These are natural suggestions as soon as one realizes that, while Carnap never explored the history or the sociology of science much himself, other members of the Vienna Circle did. (Otto Neurath is well known for his emphasis on the sociology of science; and works by Philip Frank, among others, engage seriously with the history of science.) Finally, the members of the Vienna Circle clearly saw themselves as having adopted a division of labor, with some of them focusing on formal aspects of science, others on sociological and historical aspects. (Reck [Citation2012](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/0020174X.2020.1860122#), 107)




Logical Positivism was a movement that involved many different people from about 1920s into the 1950s and went through multiple large changes. Many of the people within the circle would form counter-arguments and people would change the views constantly. Unlike the static and over-simplified view people on reddit often gives, there were multiple verification criterions, and only the most naive of the naive versions of it would be self-defeating, and the verification criterion was only ever one component of the entire movement.

One of the major debates between people like Carnap who were fine with reforming the verification criterion (which can be called the 'liberal' wing) and Schlick who wanted to conserve an older version (the 'conservative' wing). The most prominent 1920s era verification principle states that a statement is only meaningful iff it is true by definition (analytic) or is verified (synthetic). The verification criterion itself is meaningful by being true by definition. But the debate raged on whether 'verified' meant actually verified or verifiable in principle. Think for instance the statement "Grass is green". This is not verified, but verifiable in principle. Similarly in Newtonian mechanics, 'all bodies exert forces' and so on. This was crucial for the project of the rational reconstruction of scientific theories that was central to the Vienna Circle. Carnap was more fine with a change to the verification criterion to something like "a statement is meaningful iff it is true by definition (analytic) or verifiable in principle)", which lead to the introduction of theoretical-observation term distinction and Ramseyfication of theories.

But the meme itself references a large number of other debates, from Schlick convincing Carnap by using his private language argument (before Wittgenstein!) that the phenomenal language (a language based on sense-data points) had incoherent terms and that he should adopt a physical language instead (with derivable observation sentences of course). Or perhaps Carnap shooting himself, like realizing that using extensional languages for phenomenal or physical languages is not enough due to co-extensionality of concepts not being enough to distinguish then, leading to the introduction of intentsional languages (before Kripke's possible-world semantics!).

Also, many prominent people in the Circle would later leave the circle and pursue something quite different. Quine, Goodman, Sellars and Popper for instance. I'd basically have to write a vastly longer comment to go in-depth on all of this, but in a nutshell, the Vienna Circle said X, some of these people had an argument for not X, hence the Vienna Circle 'shooting itself'. Regardless, some neo-Carnapians like Leitgeb have come to recognize that many such X's were prematurely rejected and there's much to be gained from studying the Vienna Circle and their insights.