In this chapter, I will argue for what the logical structure that describes the world, in the limit of all inquiry, would have to look like. This theory would use a set of symbols which generates a language, aswell as a subset of that language of axioms, which in combination with a derivation system could derive all theorems about the world/the universe. Call such a theory $T$.   

"The only way out of this, if we are to approach metaphysical methodology in general, without bias, is to assume no specific logic at all. A few properties will follow from our theory of theories, such as that entailment is transitive" (metaphysics lunds university)

## Non-inconsistency
The explosion principle must be contained, either by a consistent or paraconsistent logic. Otherwise it makes true that I experience statements such as "$S_1$ experiences green at every point in visual space and $S_1$ experiences blue at every point in visual space" which is not true if $S_1$ introspects. 

One can easily falsify trivialism in the following way: Formulate a sentence in the logic of sense data like for instance:

"$D$ is red" and "not ($D$ is red)"

This is not true. If one observes $D$, and it's truly red, it would be the case that "D is red" is true and not false while "not (D is red)" is false and not true. Thereby, trivialism has been falsified. 




## Gödel's Incompleteness theorems.

Theorem 7.2.4 (First Incompleteness Theorem) Every consistent axiomatizable extension of PA is incomplete.

We consider the theory of the world to be consistent and axiomatizable. 

The idea that Gödel's incompleteness theorem (GIT) completely destroys any attempt at structuring the world in a logical system shows a lack of understanding the assumptions that GIT makes. GIT does NOT state that every single theory, ever, will have underivable truths. Rather, the theory requires to be of the same expressibility, or higher, than Peano Arithmetic (or rather, Robinson Arithmetic). 

Here is an incomplete list of complete theories:
Pressburger Arithmetic
Finitist Set Theory
Skolem Arithmetic
Propositional Logic
The theory of random graphs
First Order Logic(I don't think so)
Modal Logic(?)

Idea: Are they all provably consistent from within themselves?

### undefineability of truth

For the sake of argument, let us say $U$ is under the assumptions of GIT. Then all we'd expect is that some true facts about the universe is underivable from the axioms in a finite number of steps. This does not lead to a contradiction, since one of the assumptions for GIT is that the theory is consistent. Alternatively, a hypercomputation could decide on it but idk about that. One might even be able to construct a hypercomputation which could, in theory, decide on any such theorem. But such a hypercomputer has yet to be built, and the proposals for building one requires, I kid you not, creating a time machine [SOURCE]. 

A very major problem posed by such a theory, however, is that truth is undefinable with Tarski's truth definition which was used in section 1 to define phenomenal truths. This means that if $U$ contains the theory of phenomenal truths, which I believe it must, then $U$ does not upphold the assumptions for either the undefinablity of truth theorem nor GIT. This means that if $U$ is consistent, then U is complete. 

Proving consistency from within the system itself. 

## Skolem's Paradox and Putnams Model-Theoretic argument

One assumption is that there are an infinite number of objects to predicate over. The solution is to have a theory that only allows for finite modells. 

It must be provable that there exists one and only one model to avoid ambiguity in model selection. 

$U$ has one and only one model

Cantors paradox makes it even worse to neglect this!


## Expressibility and the Arithmetical Hierarchy

Levy Hierarchy aswell? Forcing proofs, CH e.t.c


## Logical Monism vs Pluralism

[16.0_pp_316_335_Quines_challenge_to_Carnap.pdf](file:///C:/Users/offic/AppData/Local/Temp/Temp1_cambridge-core_the-cambridge-companion-to-carnap_20Mar2023.zip/16.0_pp_316_335_Quines_challenge_to_Carnap.pdf)

Different logical systems could describe the world. 

Some are however better than others, N-bit tape length as short as possible.


## The problem with vague predicates

Sorities argument blah blah



Now that we have successfully restricted the number of logical systems that can describe the world without running into issues, we will now talk about some of the features that such a system will have.

## Metaphysics

Just like what Wittgenstein once said, the world is made up of objects. These objects, indicated as constants by $c$ and as variables as $x$. Functions can transform terms into other terms such as $f(x)$ and $g(c,y)$. Terms make up Atomic formules by being contained in n-ary predicates like $P(x)$, $R(x,y)$, $Q(c)$ and so on. Logical connectives then combine the atomic formulas into complex sentences and propositions such as $P(x)\wedge Q(c)$ , e.t.c. And closing formulas with variables into sentences via quantifiers. The theory that describes the world $T$ will thus contain all such statements about the world. 

It is true that such a logical system need not be predicate logic as described above. 

We now describe the metaphysics of such notions.

The functional symbols represent change (over time, most likely) 
$f, g, ....$ 
And predicate symbols are the universals (if platonist) or natural properties (if nominalist) (look into the essay by david lewis on armstrong's view on universals)
$P, Q, ...$
And constant symbols represent the constants of the universe
$x, y,...$

We also have the model which satisfy $T$. 
$M = (d, I)$
The domain $d$ of the model of the theory is the ontology of the world (Quine's criterion of existence) while $I$ is the interpretation function and maps objects in the ontology to predicates that are acctually the case in the world. 




## Scientific Realism, the theory of the world as the end of inquiry

Denote the set of axioms by $T_0$ and all of its theorems by $T$
On scientific realism.
Strong Scientific realism: $T = K$ for scientific knowledge K. $T_0\vdash K$ and nothing else.
Weak Scientific realism: $T \subset K$ for scientific knowledge K. $T_0\vdash K$
In the limit of inquiry, science "figures out the axioms". 
Also look up that thing I read in phil of science class which is literally about this and look up the litterature. Though it's in the natural laws slides I think.

Examples:

**Postulates of QM**
$A_5 = P(\lambda)=|\langle \lambda, A\rangle|^2$

**Postulates of Relativity**

**Put them together in one theory**
...
Does not work!
They derive opposite empirical predictions!
$GM\vdash O$
$QM\vdash \neg O$
$GM\cup QM\vdash O\wedge\neg O$

Which is a contradiction. Perhaps you could make an even more advanced theory, say the axioms of integrated information theory $IIT$, a theory about consciousness and neuroscience that includes phenomenal terms and is neatly mathematically axiomatized. Then we use this theory to create the abomination of a theory $GM\cup QM\cup IIT$ which would very likely contain many problems such as inconsistency or undecidability. We may still need to add axioms that describe beliefs. 

Another problem with this approach is that the union of the theories never mention one's experience, or derive theorems such as "$S_1$ experiences RED in region $A$". 

In such a scientific theory, we may also need "initial conditions". A common argument in the philosophy of science is whether or not "the early universe was hot" is natural law or not. Of course it is, it's an approximation of $S_1$.

The new riddle of induction I take Lewis's approach. The predicates in the theory that descibes the universe are natural properties. They are the least amount of properties needed to define all other properties. A perfectly natural property picks out all and only those objects which satisfy some natural propety P. Source: David Lewis Metaphyics and Epistemology part 1.


Kuhn is wrong, Aristotelian physics is describable by Newtonian physics as multi-layered fluids under uniform gravitational pressure (Arxiv paper here).


## Natural Laws
The discussion whetether info about big bang constitutes a part of our theory is an interesting question, and can be answered using the theory that has been developed in this chapter as follows:
Initial conditions are a part of the theory of everything. To determine $S_{t}$ you need $S_{t-1}$ aswell as the updating rules. If the function is reversible, then any timepoint is needed (like say, right now). Otherwise you need $S_0$. 

$f(S_0) = S_1$

[[Necessetarianism vs nomonological determinism]]



# The world cannot contain itself

The comple theory of the world could not be a part of the world, for it is otherwise subject to russell's paradox. The complete theory of the world could thus have only the two following axioms:

1. $f(S_t) = S_{t+1}$
2. $S_0$

In this way, you can from any time point predict any future timepoint with perfect accuracy. However, there is a problem. If $S_@$ is possibly derivable from the axioms, then we could derive the current state of the universe within the universe. This immediately leaves us with russell's paradox. We also get an infinite regress, since $S_@$ would contain us deriving $S_@$, and that in turn would contain us getting $S_@$ e.t.c forever. 


# Occam's Razor
Only applies to axioms, not what they lead too.

I don't see a reason why one should accept Occam's Razor. Being able to talk of counter-factuals and possibilia is nice. 

Could be about kolmogorov complexity. Didn't I already write about this in another part of the book?

## Theories of the world with equal empirical derivations/Underdetermination

Let's say there's $T_i$ and $T_j$, such that $T_i\neq T_j$ and both describe the universe. Then we'd have a type of underdetermination of theories. 

Both work I guess? Look into Quine's view on this.

Then we lett a class $C=\{T_1,\dots,T_n\}$ be the set of equally good theories of the world. Any other theory would be worse. This is just fine



# Varied ideas

This makes the philosophical theory of the world an empirical theory which can be confirmed or disconfirmed. 



## Compression, algoritmic information theory



But does a fully compressed theory necessarily lead to information loss? 
Let's say for example that the entire universe can be described by particles and deterministic natural laws (including a graviton which describes gravity). Assume The natural laws that determine the particle states over time are time-reversible. Assume there exists a laplacean demon such that it knows the particle configurations and the natural laws and the inverse of the natural laws. Then the laplacean demon can know everything about the configuration of (atleast physical) objects. If we also assume supervenience of the mental on the physical (which is controversial), mathematical nominalism, and that we're not in a simulation (or atleast, the world outside the simulation doesn't have the same laws or propositions which describe the state of it) it would be pretty much omniscient. 





The true nature of the world is objective, not subjective:
Assume two theories which describe the world $T_i$ and $T_j$ for individuals $i$ and $j$. Assume the correspondence theory of truth i.e "$p$ is true iff $p$" and assume subjectivism which states that all axioms and the consequences of the axioms of $T_i$ and $T_j$ is true. Then if $T_i\vdash p$ and $T_j\vdash\neg p$, we get that the world is contradictory. Therefore, one of the premisses are false. 



### Modal and Fusion Logics

Let's introduce modal logical operator. A logical operator such that
$\Box p \leftrightarrow \neg\diamond\neg p$

Which can be applied in all sorts of ways
Alethic (Necessity and contingency)
Epistemic (Knowledge and compatability with knowledge)
Doxastic (Belief and compatability with belief)
Deontic (Obligation, Permissibility, Forbidden)
Temporal (Past, future, now, possible timeline, all timelines e.t.c)
e.t.c

Combining multiple of these into one system yields a fusion system which have bridge laws. 

For a metaphysical interpretation of this, is it possible that the whole world is, or can atleast be modeled as, a fusion system of some sorts? This is an exciting question at first, until you realise that the number of possible bridge laws is infinite and the number of modal logical systems is infinite. Only allowing the 5 basic axioms does yield a smaller amount, especially given that say axiom 5 implies axiom S, making the space even smaller. But some like epistemic logic can have for instance the truth condition for knowledge i.e $Kp\rightarrow p$. 

But let's try that anyways. 

