Defining Temporal terms from changes in phenomenal sentences. Time as change in phenomena. This makes change primitive. But change is a function. So the logical term "function" is primitive. But functions are just relations or even just sets, which is counting multiple things in a list. So quantity is fundamental? WAT

Quantity (primitive) --> Sets --> Functions --> Change --> Time



One’s experience of the world is not static, but changes ‘over time’. Time is to be thought of as a process that inputs experience at time $t$ and outputs a new experience at time $t+1$. 

Definition: Let $T :E \rightarrow E$ be a function that inputs experience sets and outputs experience sets.

Considering our thoroughgoing empiricsm, $T$ is not necessarily the "reality itself", or some such thing. Time could be mysterious, emergent e.t.c, however, change in phenomenal experience is a change that can be modelled empirically. We can take note of a single microphenomenal point on the visual field, take $v\in V$. We can then see that the color changes. We can model it using such a function. 

Example: 
Let $E_0=\{\{blue,1\},\{red,2\}\}$ be an experience that contains a visual field with one blue pixel to the left and one red pixel to the right and nothing else. Then we define $T(\{blue, x\}) = \{red, x\}$ and $T(\{red, x\}) = \{blue, x\}$. Using our definition of time above we get:

$$T(E_0)=T(\{\{blue,1\},\{red,2\}\})$$
$$=\{T(\{blue,1\}), T(\{red,2\})\}$$
$$=\{\{red,1\}, \{blue,2\}\}$$
$$=E_1$$

Which tells us that the subject is now experiencing the red to the left and blue to the right. As can easily be seen, this process will continue indefinitely. 

With this basic example in mind, imagine if something like this was applied to a subject of human-level complexity, with a large quantity and variety of qualia. 


## Time Concepts
We’re going to explore three time concepts. The first can be thought of as each qualia being updated on its own. An example of this could be that a tiny red “pixel” of one’s visual field updates to green, then to blue e.t.c without the input of the rest of the visual field or for that matter the rest of the experience of the universe. This is the time function which has the following property: 

 $$F(E_t) = F(\bigcup_{n\in E_t} r)=\bigcup_{n\in E_t} f(r)=E_{t+1}$$

The best way one can visualize it is something of a random disco, or “clown vomit” as it is sometimes called when textures in computer graphics break and there are pixels of random colors that flash constantly into new colors without any care about what colors are around it. The sound is choppy as well, each pitch updates its volume without any care about the other pitches. Imagine something like that but for all senses. This is the most likely outcome of such a theory of time.

Although, to take a step back, it could be the case that each qualia update is hard-coded to produce one's experience over time, this is not parsimonious since it requires F to be an incredibly complicated function. This is why it's very likely not true. One potential empirical verification is whether there exists regular laws that determine our experience. As I do believe a lot of research in all kinds of fields shows, this is very much the case. 

The second definition of time will be closer to truth, but will miss the mark unless solipsism is true. And that is if the function updates one's entire experience at once.
$$F(E_t) = E_{t+1}$$
This one takes one’s entire experience and processes it at once, all qualia’s are related to some or all other qualia’s in some way. This one is ok, as long as solipsism is true. Why? Recall , this implies that $$E_t\subset U$$. This means that we’ve basically copied the previous, immature time definition but scaled it up.  
 
$$F(U_t) = F(\bigcup_{E_{i,t}\in U_t} E_{i,t})=\bigcup_{E_{i,t}\in U_t} f(E_{i,t})=U_{t+1}$$

This didn’t solve a thing! Unless you’re willing to commit that solipsism is true. This Means that there’s only one potential, and truly working, time function left:
Definition:
$$F(U_t) =U_{t+1}$$

The totality of experience is all updated at once. We can never cheat and assume that qualia is generally updated without any care about the rest of the universe, but rather that everything is interconnected. 