
There exists two major interpretations or probability: Frequency of events, and epistemic uncertainty. 
### Frequentism vs Bayesianism

### Imprecise probabilities

### Measure theory here maybe?


### Theories of action


### Newcomb's problem

One boxing is so obvious duuh



### Decision theory

Buridians ass and selecting a decision theory over a probability distribution over possible ones. Choose to calculate only maybe the top 2 or 3 most likely theories of instrumental rationality. Choosing end goals will be given in chapter [[5. Normative reasoning]]. 




### Risk averse well-being satisficing and one-boxing

Risk-aversion: Do not let the AI experiment with dangerous black-hole technology.



### Free willed actions and agent-deliberation theories

Does it matter if we have free will or not for agent actions to "matter"? 

Branching time temporal logic:
Indeterminate future truth values
o --> o ---> ...
  |-> o --> ...

This is a necessary but not sufficient condition for free will. The time-branching step must be caused by an action --.., Ohhh uh-oh causation. Mental causation? Uncaused?

Events $e_1,\dots e_n$ and a causality relation $C$. Then $e_iCe_j$ means that $e_i$ causes $e_j$. Could it be that some $e_k$ occurs, yet $\neg\exists i(e_iCe_k)$? Seems plausible. 




Certain free-will models have a different view. Deliberation based on where the probability distribution changes over time instead. 


Causal determinism means only one action is truly available. 
o --> o --> o -->...

This generalises to continuous time. 

Can we still make sense of actions? Does decision theory collapse?


Assume it is currently unknown if time branches or not.



Agent action is still possible because I can reference the earlier chapter on the phenomenology of free will. Assume for now that an action takes place over one time-step. Then we will have some set $A$ which represents the phenomena of the action. It doesn't matter if primitivism or reductionism for free will phenomenology is true. Only if eliminativims is true, since then $A$ wouldn't exist. Called free will an illussion would amount to believing in reductionism and causal determinism. Anyways, this set is enough. Over multiple time periods we can have 
$\{A_1,\dots A_T\}$ representing one action, or even deliberation over actions where $T$ is the number of time-steps it takes. For continuous time, this can be represented as $[A_s, A_e]$ being the interval between action start-time $A_s$ and action end-time $A_e$.  This is enough to save decision theory even if causal determinism is true. 

It seems as if we have free will, therefore we can take it as a working hypothesis. 