1. Intuitionistic logic, sometimes more generally called constructive logic, differs from classical logic by more closely mirroring the notion of constructive proof. In particular, systems of intuitionistic logic do not include the law of the excluded middle (pv~p) and double negation elimination $(~~p→p)$, which are fundamental inference rules in classical logic. Excluded middle and double negation elimination can still be proved for some propositions on a case-by-case basis, however, but do not hold universally as they do with classical logic. Important to note is that the two rules are equivalent in classical logic since they have the same truth table. The thing about Gödels Incompleteness Theorems is that they only apply to systems that can have sufficient arithmetic for gödel-numbering, i.e. we take any formula A in a language L and transform it into a number g(A) and then show that g(A). That is why Gödel’s incompleteness theorem’s only applies to systems with a certain amount of elementary arithmetic. **Intuitionistic logic can show that it is itself complete.** [https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168007213001085](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168007213001085 "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0168007213001085") What if we put a limit to numbers, and only include finite sets with a finite largest number (finitist set theory). Then we would have to actually construct each number, and we’d have a finite number of possible numbers and thus we can’t turn every statement into a gödel number. This invalidates gödels incompleteness theorem and does not apply to finite set theory.
    
2. _[_13:47_]_
    
    Instead, all finitary set theories (there are several ones that include different set theoretic axioms) are complete and decidable. Decidability means an algorithm is constructible, where one can input a formula and it outputs whether it’s true or false. And because the system is complete, all formulas are derivable through a finite number of steps. This means that testing the coherence of a finite set theory is possible, at least in principle by building such an algorithm. And for finitist set theories with very few axioms this has been done already I believe. Now to ontology, here is where phenomenalism comes in. Our perception is made up of singletons (like a pixel of red for example) that forms wholes, and in turn other wholes e.t.c until one has the totality of qualia - at least by the subject me. This is because finitist set theory is closely related to mereology. This requires sets and numbers. Everything in our perceptual experience can be quantified, from the rgb values of our visual pixels, to the combined frequencies of audio, to various degrees of smells, taste and touch, and the realisation that thought is a low-resolution version of qualia. This means we can form sets that contain qualia as items, like a singleton set k={red}, many such singleton sets can form larger sets which are larger structures. Formally: Let k be the singleton set for a single pixel of perception (like one pixel red or one frequency of audio or the strength of some type of aroma e.t.c) Let Si,t be the set of all single pixel perception singletons that observer i is experiencing at time t.
    

- _[_13:47_]_
    
    Then the Powerset of Si,t is all possible ways of combining different qualia into larger structures of perception (such as a pencil, a thought, a sunset). I am only aware of a subset of the power set that maximises predictability i.e I’m not aware of random subsets of the powerset, but there’s order to what I am aware of. Let Ut be the totality of all perception by all subjects in the universe at time t. If solipsism is true, then Ut∪Si,t=Si,t Else solipsism is false i.e there exists qualia that is experienced by a different subject. Let U be the totality of all perception over all time. This is equivalent to God. It exists everywhere (since all that exists is qualia), it knows everything there possibly is to know, and it exists through all time. Note how all of this is constructed. I never apply reductio ad absurdum proofs, since that would violate intuitionistic logic. The God U is constructively proved, since I showed how this entity is constructed. This is the power of using intuitionistic logic as the language of the universe.