Ryle states that it makes sense to ask "where is the pain", but not "where is the pleasure". Many have argued that pain is located, but pleasure is not. In this paper, I will question the assumption that pleasure is not located, give it a formal representation, then demonstrate that maximizing pleasure and minimizing pain sensations, as various hedonistic and utilitarian theories postulate, is problematized by locationality.
# Are pleasure and pain sensations located?

We may wonder whether sensations are located or not. Sensations such as proprioception tells us where body parts are, and can be considered located not because body parts have a location, but because the sensation itself is located. Some have argued that pleasure is not located while pain is located. Ryle says it makes sense to ask "where is the pain?" to someone but not "where is the pleasure". I will posit some counter-examples that might demonstrate the locationality of pleasure. For instance, consider touching a nice texture in your hand. There seems to be some kind of pleasure sensation located in the hand, and not somewhere else. Here, the question "where is the pleasure" can be answered by simply saying "in my hand". When I eat a delicious piece of chocolate cake I might notice the pleasure located in my mouth. While being excited for a new major update to a game I like I feel a pleasant hype sensation which sit atleast partially in the stomach. Sexual pleasure is another one that's pretty obvious, the moment of orgasm can include pleasure located in the crotch. However if done well one can even have a full-body orgasm, with pleasure sensations located throughout. 

To make the case more clear let's consider a more sociological thought experiment. Imagine a society where people do a certain ritual where many sensory pleasures take place across some people's bodies. We can then imagine that some individual in this society asks some of the participants in the ritual "where is the pleasure?" or perhaps "where is the pleasure the strongest?" and the answer would act as a "prediction" of the year. It's not implausible that such a society could exist, even if it just so happen to not have been the case in human history (so far). Let's call this the locationality of pleasure thesis.

One way to introspect on the locationality of pain is to pinch the back of one's left hand and move it around. Alternatively, pinch a few points of one's skin to form say a plus shape (+), and introspect on the different points where it hurts. Try pinching different points with different intensity. This sensation will involve multiple pain points, proportional to how tightly it was pinched. Let's call this the locationality of pain thesis. 

Let's now consider some other argument for the locationality of pain thesis from neurophilosophy, where one can consider pain receptors throughout the body. However some theories posits that pleasure sensations is primarily correlated with brain activity exclusively, in the pleasure centers of the brain. For instance, Szasz argues that there's no pleasure location, and that there's an asymmetry between the physiology of pain which would be located to the physiology of pleasure which is non-located. 

Opponent-process theory claims that suffering and pleasure cannot be active at the same time at the same location. In fact, many physiologists can take suffering to be the absence of pleasure. However this might not be enough. Some report being able to feel pain and pleasure at the same time (for instance masochism) aswell as the report that suffering is not the same as pain since those with painkiller sometimes report feeling pain while it doesn't feel bad. 

It's worth noting that what we're considering is primarily about the phenomenal experience, the what-it-is-likeness of pleasure and suffering sensations, not what our best theories say, though they can be informative, and in some physicalist accounts of the mind might give a better justification than introspection.

# How does the locationality thesis interact with various accounts of algedonic phenomenology?

Algedonic phenomenology, coming form a combination from old Greek words algo (pain) and hedonic (pleasure), is about the phenomenology of pain and pleasure. This kind of phenomenology involves a Nagelian what-it-is-like-ness to the experience of pain and pleasure, about the first-person experience of pleasure and pain. It's worth clarifying that it is not some theoretical construct to predict behavior, nor a certain functional process, nor activations of certain neurons or other physical processes per say. Many physicalist theories of mind postulates that pleasure and pain may be reduced to the physical, a posteriori or a priori necessarily identical to the physical, emergent or supervenient from the physical and so on. We don't take that into consideration here. The kind of reasoning in this article will hopefully be general enough to be compatible with any metaphysical account of the mind, whether dualist, physicalist, idealist and so on.

Now let's go over some examples of the-what-it-is-likeness of pleasure and pain might be. One could imagine a nice cup of tea, sexual pleasure, eating chocolate, playing an exhilarating game, touching a nice texture and perhaps paradoxically, watching a tragic movie. These are sensations with pleasures that many humans experience. In this essay, I will consider in how pleasure sensations might be located in "the body" or otherwise extended. For instance, eating chocolate and touching a nice texture in the hand at the same time, and how the pleasure sensations would be located in the mouth and hand at the same time. We will go more in depth on that in the next section, for this section we will go over other aspects of pleasure to clarify which positions are assumed in the rest of the argument. 

One might ask whether or not other phenomenal experiences, such as vision, audio, touch, thoughts etc. in some way acts as a "ground" for pleasure or pain. Perhaps one may even question whether pleasure and pain are coherent concepts at all. In the book varieties of consciousness, there are 3 main positions on algedonic phenomenology:

- Eliminativism, which is the position that pleasure and pain sensations don't exist and can be dispensed from our ontology. 
  
- Reductivism, the view that pleasure and pain sensations reduce to other sensations, for instance vision, audio, touch, thoughts and so on.
  
- Atomism, the view that pain and pleasure sensations are fundamental and non-reducible to other sensation states.

Eliminativism can be argued for by considering that all kinds of different experiences are called "pleasurable" despite having no common phenomenology at all. One may thus argue that there is no pleasure or pain in this case. Atleast, there would be multiple different kinds of pleasure. However, just because there are multiple different kinds of phenomenal experiences associated with doesn't it mean it's eliminated. There still would be multiple, a position we will later explore known as pleasure pluralism will be brought up later. In such a case, the locationality thesis wouldn't matter much, although a heterogeneous mix of "pleasures" and "pains" might still be located in a mathematically complex way that will be ignored for the rest of this article. 

There is also a case to be made for reductionism. Perhaps pain and pleasure can be reduced to thoughts or self-awareness. This might be corroborated by some who meditate and is able to handle large degrees of pain by learning to think away the pain. In animal ethics, some have argued that animals don't feel pain for the reason that only humans have the ability to be self-aware which grounds the pain sensation. However, this has been criticized, since one can end up in a meditative state that lacks thought sensations, yet retain pain or pleasure sensations.  The locationality thesis would then state that pleasure is located so long as atleast some items which pleasure is reducible to is located. 

There's also a case for Atomism. It might be considered absurd that one can just think away the suffering, and that some individuals merely get used to the suffering, or being exposed to some kind of suffering causes it to be less bad with training. It might also be absurd to consider that animals don't feel pain simply because they lack the awareness or thoughts about pain, they still feel it just the same. The locationality thesis makes no major change for this view. 

There's also the potential of there being multiple different kinds of pleasure and sufferings, not just one, which might especially be the case under a reductionist account. For instance, Boström claims there's 3 kinds of pleasure while Bentham claims that there's a whopping 14 kinds of pleasure. So there's two new positions:

- Pleasure/Pain Monism
- Pleasure/Pain Pluralism

We will be considering both in the article, though we will not consider the exact number of pains or pleasures. 

A third distinction to make is between intentional accounts and phenomenal accounts. Intentional accounts posit that pleasure and pain are *about* something, for instance "I'm happy about the video I'm watching", "my leg is in pain" and so on. Moods are sometimes posited as an counter-example, however intentionalists can state that moods are still *about* some "general state of the world". Phenomenal accounts on the other hand posit that pleasure is a kind of phenomenal sensation and not directed. The intentionalist view might ascribe locationality to the objects in the intentional attitude (being happy about the sun where the sun is located) however the attitude itself might be considered non-located. 

And a final question is, when dealing with the intensity of a pleasure, or the duration of a pleasure and other such values, are we to take from the integers (namely, intensity and duration are discrete) or are we to take them from the real numbers (namely,  intensity and duration is continuous). I will avoid the debate for now, and simply state that pleasure values will be defined generally in the set $\mathbb{A}$ which stands for just some generic set.
# The problem for value theory

This section will discuss some consequences the locationality thesis has on value theory. For instance, pleasure and pain sensations being located might make utility calculations, even for a single individual, more complicated. Let's begin with just considering different theories of well-being. There are three main views:

- Hedonic-Pleasure
- Desire-Satisfaction
- Objective-List

The hedonic-pleasure view generally state that well-being consist of having experiences that are more pleasurable, and that nothing outside of one's experience matter for well-being. Someone with this view of well-being may consider taking a "happiness-pill" that changes one's experience to be slightly more pleasurable with no other effects to increase well-being. Perhaps even entering an experience machine which gives the user the experience one typically has but with slightly more pleasurable sensations, but not otherwise different would increase one's well-being.

Desire-Satisfaction instead posits that well-being consist of satisfying desires, even when these desires are outside of immediate experience (think for instance, someone having the strong desire to write a book even though writing the book makes them miserable, or someone who desires to live in an external world rather than the experience machine or taking happiness pills). Some desires such as connection with others may preclude somebody from entering the experience machine. 

Lastly objective list tells us that well-being consists of an objective list of things such as happiness (eudemonic, "True Happiness"), knowledge, friendship etc. and that this list is completely independent of our own desires and final goals. The extent to which this suggests entering the experience machine has to do what this objective list consists off. To simplify things, for the rest of this article, I will merely consider the hedonic-pleasure account of well-being. 

Without considering the locationality of pain and pleasure, one could simply assume that the hedonic pleasure view allowed for easy evaluation on how well off one is. Such an analysis of pleasure and pain as something states that it can be less or greater, and that pleasure implies no suffering and suffering implies no pleasure. We will now formalize the kind of view's we're considering. First, let's consider a set of sensation states $S$ and a set of numbers $\mathbb{A}$ with some utility function $U:S\to \mathbb{A}$ where $U(s)>0$ indicates pleasurable states while $U(s)<0$ indicates suffering states and $U(s)=0$ indicates neutral states. Notice that we're also assuming pleasure monism (there being only one pleasure) and either atomism or reductivism (the structure of pleasure is simple or reductive, but does exist). This kind of analysis is one assumption used in many theories about value, such as certain versions of hedonism and utilitarianism. For instance one might simply map a singular "pleasure" value on every agent in some population, and consider the distributions of agents and pleasure levels per agent. This makes evaluating utility really easy. It might give nice to have properties, such as the possibility to do utility comparisons between individuals, assuming that there's some way of objectively measuring $U$ for all agents. However some argue utility comparisons are hard or impossible. The problem of other minds states that it is impossible to have knowledge (in some strong sense) of the sensation states of things outside one's own conscious experience, including pleasure or pain sensations. Hence one can really only evaluate one's own pleasure and pain states. There are other arguments in this vein, but we will skip those for now and consider the problem as solvable.

However, let's consider what happens when we change the assumptions. Pleasure and pain are no longer just a number, but rather, there's a whole set of points in 3D space which has it's own pleasure/pain value. Formally, this can be defined as the set $\{x,y,z,S\}$. Recall the idea of pleasure and pain pluralism, in that case $N$ and $P$ would not be described as numbers but could rather be defined as sets whose elements are 2-tuples where each 2-tuple is describing the type of sensation and the strength of the respective sensation. Let's consider that pain and pleasure might be in present at the same location. With this assumption we can instead of $S$, we define a value for positive sensations $P\in\mathbb{A}$ and negative sensations $N\in\mathbb{A}$, giving us the set $\{x,y,z,N,P\}$. 
# How the locationality thesis threaten certain kinds of utilitarianism

To make things precise, the notions made above will be formalized with preference relations. In this context we will define a preference relation $\succeq$ as a relation between states of consciousness. So for instance, if I say $a \succeq b$ I will claim that some sensation $a$ is atleast preferable to sensation $b$. Also define equally preferable as: 

$a\sim b \equiv a\succeq b \wedge b\succeq a$

For $\succeq$ to be classified as a utility function this relation needs atleast two properties: Transitivity and Completeness

Transitivity: $((a\succeq b) \wedge (b\succeq c)) \to (a\succeq c)$

Completeness: $(a\succeq b) \vee (b\succeq a)\vee (a\sim b)$

We can then see that non-located algedonic experiences upholds these properties. Transitivity makes sense. If some situation $a$ has a level of pleasure greater than $b$, and $b$ has greater pleasure than $c$, then it follows that sensation $a$ has greater pleasure than $c$. Likewise, either a sensation has less or more pleasure than any other. This means that the preference relation $\succ$ is a total ordering, meaning that it can map conscious states to say, the real numbers, allowing for the definition of a utility function. 

However here is where locationality becomes a major obstacle. 
Locationality implies the falsity of completeness of the pleasure-sensation preference relation. Let's take an example. Assume that I'm holding my two hands up. Assume also that at some time instant later, I'm pinches in my left hand at the same time as some really pleasurable rubbing sensation on my right hand occur. Let's say the pleasure is twice as good as the pain of pinching is bad. This means that the pleasure in one location increased while pain in another increased. Describing the situation mathematically we could say that there are two locations $x_1$ and $x_2$, each of which with their own pleasure and pain sensation as such:

Before $=\{\{x_1, 0,0\},\{x_2, 0,0\}\}$
After $=\{\{x_1, 1,0\},\{x_2, 0,2\}\}$

And now let's consider two possible preference relations over those states

$\{\{x_1, 0,0\},\{x_2, 0,0\}\}\succeq \{\{x_1, 1,0\},\{x_2, 0,2\}\}$
$\{\{x_1, 1,0\},\{x_2, 0,2\}\}\succeq\{\{x_1, 0,0\},\{x_2, 0,0\}\}$

It is unclear which preference relation one might be more inclined to accept. How much worse does the pain have to be for the suffering to be better? At this point, we're more or less going from a perfectly neutral state to one where there is some pain and some pleasure. Which situation is better then? This more or less leads to the same problem as aggregating preferences in multi-agent situations, aswell as population ethics. For instance, do we prefer going from a neutral state to one where one person is slightly worse of while another is much better of? And in fact, some results in population ethics could have similar consequences for this view.
# Population ethics for a single pop with many pleasure locations

The standard version of the repugnant conclusion goes as follows: assume there's some population of agents. Assume every pop $0,1,...,n$ has the same degree of pleasure sensations $S$. This is less preferable to some pleasure sensations $S+k$ for pops $0,1,...,n$ and also some new pops at a pleasure level $\epsilon>0$. barely positive for newly created pops $n+1,n+2,...m$. This is then in turn less preferable to lifting up those pleasure sensations so an average pleasure level $(S+k+\epsilon)/2$. If we keep reiterating this we end up with a sensation with many locations with barely positive pleasure sensations. So in the end, everyone has lives that are barely worth living. 

Now let us take the repugnant conclusion and make a reworked within a single conscious experience. The way we'll do this is that instead of considering population we consider locations in someone's experience. One can imagine that "adding points" would be for instance, that via genetic engineering or through some other reasonable future technology (perhaps genetically engineering to grow larger, brain-computer interfaces or the experience machine), one can change the experience in a highly customized way that would allow for an ever larger localized sensations. Let's assume some experience that is merely pleasure, i.e no sight sound etc. Assume this experience has some pleasure sensation $S$ in locations $0,1,...n$. This is less preferable to some pleasure sensations $S+k$ in locations $0,1,...,n$ and also some new experiences that are pleasure level $\epsilon$ that are barely positive at locations $n+1,n+2,...m$. This is then in turn preferable to lifting up those pleasure sensations so an average pleasure level $(S+k+\epsilon)/2$. If we keep reiterating this we end up with a sensation with many locations with barely positive pleasure sensations.

To make the example more clear, let's say Alice has a brain-computer interface in a way where one can slide in "hedonslots" which adds a new location of pleasure at some degree. She reasons that it is better for her if she increases the number of hedonslots, even at the cost of lowering total hedonic pleasure in other locations such as one's pre-existing body. Eventually, total pleasure is low but there are many points of pleasure. This science-fiction thought experiment provides a case in which this kind of reasoning leads to a "repugnant conclusion" for her own mind.  

One can also make a case regarding the non-Identity problem for a single agent. Are agents prepared to expand their conscious experience to include new pleasure points? Here it might be argued that since adding pleasure points is good for one "unified" conscious experience is good for only one mind, assuming that there are no overlapping minds. 

One could even consider social choice theory, a mathematical study on aggregating individual preferences or utility functions into a single social welfare functional using different methods. As such, similar problems on how to aggregate preference in single individuals to the collective level will arise, such as Arrow's Impossibility Theorem and the Gibbard-Satherwhite theorem. Those theorems demonstrate that collective irrationalities can occur if specific ways of aggregating collective preferences from rational individual preferences. If the locationality thesis is true, then this posits issues for aggregating even a single agents multiple points of pain and pleasure into the unified consciousness of the entire agent. 

So the issue of aggregating utilities in a multi-agent scenario has an equivalent problem in just within a single experience. But it's not just an analogy, how do we aggregate multiple agents preferences if they each have located pleasure and pain points? 
# Conclusion

In conclusion then, the locationality thesis, while controversial, if true would demonstrate certain issues with regards to value theory that are interesting to consider. I don't consider it a case against utilitarianism or hedonism unless maybe on parsimony grounds, if it turns out that the theory has to more complicated than it was previously thought. 

It's also worth noting that the evidence for the locationality thesis of pleasure is quite limited compared to the locationality thesis of pain. It's plausible that both are not true at the same time, at least not for most current human experiences. Regardless, it's worth considering doing more studies both philosophical and empirical in a way that can resolve the question regarding the locationality thesis's.