
1) Add hoc concepts exist
2) Philosophical concepts are sometimes ad-hoc (such as 'what it is like')
3) Philosophical concepts are problematic for experimental philosophy

"Carston (2002, p. 322) introduces ad hoc concepts as follows: This term is used to refer to concepts that are constructed pragmatically by a hearer in the process of utterance comprehension. The idea is that speakers can use a lexically encoded concept to communicate a distinct non-lexicalized (atomic1) concept, which resembles the encoded one in that it shares elements of its logical and encyclopaedic entries, and that hearers can pragmatically infer the intended concept on the basis of the encoded one. The description of such concepts as ‘ad hoc’ reflects the fact that they are not linguistically given, but are constructed online (on the fly) in response to specific expectations of relevance raised in specific contexts"


There is some way for S to know what is is like for x that y is phi-ing

I de flesta exempel är det fallet att x=y, men ibland går dom i från varandra t.ex "sjukvårdare vet hur det är för sjukhus att vara fulla med patienter"

Sanningskonditions är när det finns en kontext c sådant att 

"(9) ‘S knows what it is like to x for y to ϕ’ is true in a context c if and only if there is, in c, some way W such that S knows that y’s ϕ-ing affects x in way W."

"Stoljar points out that WIL-sentences are context-sensitive, signalling a contextually salient way that the event of ϕ-ing can affect an individual. Consider (7a)—‘John knows what it is like to live in the forest’. In the context of discussing the benefits of the natural environment, the sentence is naturally interpreted as expressing positive effects that living in the forest has. In the context of discussing a housing crisis, the effects at issue are likely to be negative.****"



"The point made with respect to the concept what it’s like to see something red generalises and applies to other WILP-concepts. For instance, Nagel in his 1974 paper‘Whatisitliketobeabat?’givesvariouscontextualcluestopromptthereaderto latch onto the relevant ad hoc concept what it’s like to be a bat. Immediately after defining consciousness using the WIL-locution, Nagel (1974, p. 436) points out that the ‘what-it’s-like’ character of subjective experience is not to be analysed in functional or behavioural terms. Thus, his WIL-locution is not supposed to refer to how being a bat affects a bat in certain non-experiential ways, e.g. hanging out in the cave, hunting for insects. This narrows down the kinds of affective relations between the subject of an experience and an event of undergoing that experience. Nagel then considers a bat’s experience and its subjective point of view to help the reader to latch onto the relevant sense of the intended WILP-concept. Contextual information from imagined scenarios like Jackson’s and Nagel’s enable philosophers to effectively introduce WILP-concepts to readers who are unfamiliar with the relevant philosophical discussion, allowing them to latch onto the intended interpretation of the WIL-locution. In philosophical discussion on consciousness, philosophers nevertheless often directly use the WIL-locution to denote phenome nal properties of conscious states without contextual information, but rather with the tacit assumption that the reader (most likely a philosopher) is already familiar with WILP-concepts. WILp-concepts may very well be routinised or even lexicalised for philosophers of mind such that they can, upon encountering a WIL-sentence in philosophical discussion, directly home in on the relevant sense without pragmatic adjustment."


"(I) Laypeople do not have or grasp philosophers’ concept C. (II) Laypeople do not have philosophers’ intuition X. (III) Philosophical ideas based on C or X are problematic. Either (I) or (II) is used to justify (III)."

"Either (I) or (II) is used to justify (III). Using X-Phi literature on consciousness as a case study (Sect. 4.1), I argue that such moves are problematic (Sect. 4.2). The argument here generalises: inferences from empirical data to conclusions (I)–(III) can be problematic when the philosopher’s concept C finds its origin as an ad hoc concept or when having the intuition of X presupposes the acquisition of an ad hoc concept. I end the section by relating the criticism raised here against experimental philosophy to the kind of challenge from ordinary language found in Hansen (2020)."

"In a number of places, Sytsma et al. appeal to empirical data to argue that laypeo ple lack the concept of phenomenal consciousness (Sytsma & Machery, 2009, 2010; Sytsma, 2009, 2010, 2016; Sytsma &Ozedemir,2019).Notably, in ‘TwoConceptions of Subjective Experience’, Sytsma and Machery (2010) contend that if laypeople possessed the concept of consciousness, they would treat paradigmatic cases of phenomenal states (e.g. feeling pain, seeing red) in a similar way to philosophers in tracking phenomenal consciousness. They presented participants with a vignette describing a scenario where an agent manipulates a red object."

Stödjer tidigare teori om hur filosofer och lekmän skiljer sig i deras attribution till om en robot "ser röd" eller "känner smärta"

"It is worth noting that whether or not there is a hard problem does not depend on whether non-philosophers possess and utilise the concept of consciousness. Sytsma and Machery (2010, p. 323) themselves raise the possibility that people may lack the concept but be able to easily latch onto it. However, they dismiss this response on the basis of their own experience that ‘ordinary people either don’t understand or don’t take seriously the philosophical concept of phenomenal consciousness even after a lengthy explanation’ (op. cit)."

"Problem intuitions include explanatory intuitions (e.g. that consciousness cannot be explained in physical terms), metaphysical intuitions (e.g. that consciousness is non physical), knowledge intuitions (e.g. that knowledge about what it is like to see colours is not exhausted by knowledge about colour science), and modal intuitions (e.g. that we can conceive physical duplicates of us but lacking consciousness) (Chalmers, 2018, p. 12). Problem intuitions motivate the hard problem of consciousness and underlie corresponding arguments against physicalism. Levine’s (1983) explanatory gap argument is based on an explanatory intuition. Kripke’s (1980) argument against physicalism in Naming and Necessity is underpinned by the metaphysical intuition that the feeling of pain is distinct from C-fibre stimulation. Jackson’s (1982) knowl edge argument appeals to the knowledge intuition that Mary learns something new after leaving her black-and-white room. Chalmers’ (1996) zombie argument is built on a modal intuition about the conceivability of philosophical zombies"

4 Mind-blowing reasons you may fail to construct an ad-hoc concept!

"Recall Sytsma and Machery’s testimony from their own experience that ‘ordinary people either don’t understand or don’t take seriously the philosophical concept of phenomenalconsciousness evenafter alengthy explanation’. Now, if consciousness and WILP-concepts are ad hoc concepts, then it is no surprise that hearers can easily fail to latch onto these concepts, just as they can fail to construct other intended ad hoc concepts. This by no means indicates that the concept of consciousness or related WILP-concepts are illegitimate, or that laypeople would fail to grasp the concepts had the latter been introduced under favourable conditions where there is an appropriate feedback mechanism in place, adequate background information, and no confusion on the part of the speaker or audience."