

## Neural Networks

### Feed-Forward

Definition 1: The input layer
Definition 1: Hidden layers
Definition 1: The Output layer

The connections goes from layer to layer, forming a so called feed-forward neural network. It can be represented as a mathematical graph, which can also have a vector representation.

Each node $n$ has an activation value $a(n)$, and when some function take the inputs from the edges $e_1,\dots e_n$ such that $f(e_1,\dots e_n)> a(n)$ then $n$ activates and sends its signal forward.

Usually such an $f$ is utilizes the sigmoid function or similar functions which map it to between 0 and 1. Another type of function is used more these days forgot the name but it's linear rather than non-linear. 

Deep Neural Networks have many hidden layers


### Recurrent neural networks

One theory of consciousness, namely recurrent theory (TODO: What was the name again?), posits consciousness as recurrence.

Feed forward neural networks, which are the most common, don't have that. They don't send the signal recurrently. 



## Cognitive psychology and connectionism


[Associationist Theories of Thought (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/associationist-thought/)

[Connectionism (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy)](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/connectionism/)



Neural networks consist of an input layer, an output layer, and a set of hidden layers. Behavourists posited merely input-ouput relationships between sensory inputs and motor outputs. The cognitivist can say that we can include some computations that occur inbetween these steps by positing a set of neural connections. 




Intelligence as an emergent property of computational systems?




## Reinforcement Learning

Pavlov famously ... dogs bell

Well we have the same thing now with AI. This kind of agent model takes action, receives feedback/reward from the environment based on those actions, and revises one's action strategy accordingly

Mathematically speaking:
$A={R, A}$
environment state-action pairs
utility goes brrr


A simple model is the multi-armed bandit
(insert that here)


Woaw!




[Probably approximately correct learning - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probably_approximately_correct_learning)
Also found in the computational complexity paper!


